README.md, before:

# DDEV add-on test action

---

> A GitHub action to run tests on a DDEV add-on.

---

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/ddev/github-action-add-on-test)](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-add-on-test/releases)
[![last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/ddev/github-action-add-on-test)](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-add-on-test/commits)
[![tests](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-add-on-test/actions/workflows/add-ons-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-add-on-test/actions/workflows/add-ons-test.yml)

**Table of Contents**

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [Inputs](#inputs)
  - [Available keys](#available-keys)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Test your DDEV add-on](#test-your-ddev-add-on)
    - [`bats` tags and the `test_command` input](#bats-tags-and-the-test_command-input)
- [License](#license)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Quick start

_We will suppose here that you want to test your add-on with the stable version of DDEV._

You can add the following step in your workflow:

```yaml
- uses: ddev/github-action-add-on-test@v2
  with:
    ddev_version: "stable"
    token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    addon_repository: ${{ env.GITHUB_REPOSITORY }}
    addon_ref: ${{ env.GITHUB_REF }}
```

This step will install the latest stable version of DDEV and run `bats tests` command from the source folder of your add-on.

(The source folder of your add-on must contain a `tests` folder with at least a `bats` file, as it is the case if you have used the [DDEV addon template](https://github.com/ddev/ddev-addon-template) to create your add-on.)

## Inputs

### Available keys

The following keys are available as `step.with` keys:

---

- `ddev_version` (_String_)

DDEV version that will be installed before your tests.

Not required.

Default: `stable`.

Allowed values are: `stable`, `HEAD`.

---

- `token` (_String_)

A GitHub Personal Access Token used by the `debug` and `run test` steps.

Required.

Example: `${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}`.

---

- `addon_repository`(_String_)

GitHub repository of the tested addon (`{owner}/{repo}`). Will be used as the `repository` key during a [checkout
action](https://github.com/actions/checkout#usage)

Required.

Example: `${{ env.GITHUB_REPOSITORY }}`.

---

- `addon_ref`(_String_)

GitHub reference of the tested addon. Will be used as the `ref` key during a [checkout action](https://github.com/actions/checkout#usage)

Required.

Example: `${{ env.GITHUB_REF }}`.

---

- `addon_path`(_String_)

Path (relative to `$GITHUB_WORKSPACE` ) where the addon will be cloned by a checkout action. Will be used as the `path`
key of the [checkout action](https://github.com/actions/checkout#usage)

Not required.

Default: `./`

---

- `debug_enabled` (_Boolean_)

If `true`, a tmate session will be accessible before the tests step. See [action-tmate](https://github.com/mxschmitt/action-tmate) for more details.

Not required.

Default: `false`.

---

- `disable_checkout_action` (_Boolean_)

If you need to check out your add-on source code with some specific inputs (`submodules`, `ssh-key`, etc.), or you need to perform some extra steps between checkout and DDEV installation steps, you can disable the default checkout action by setting `true` for this input.

Not required.

Default: `false`.

---

- `test_command` (_String_)

If you want to run a customized test command, you can use this input.

If it's empty, the test command will be `bats tests --filter-tags !release` during _push_ or _pull request_ workflows and `bats tests` otherwise.

Not required.

Default: `""`.

For more details, see [below](#bats-tags-and-the-test_command-input).

---

## Usage

### Test your DDEV add-on

If your add-on is based on the [DDEV add-on template repository](https://github.com/ddev/ddev-addon-template), you
should have a tests folder containing a `test.bats` file.

Using this GitHub action, a `.github/workflows/tests.yml` file could have the following content:

```yaml
name: tests
on:
  pull_request:
  push:
    branches: [main]
    paths-ignore:
      - "**.md"

  schedule:
    - cron: "25 08 * * *"

  workflow_dispatch:
    inputs:
      debug_enabled:
        type: boolean
        description: Debug with tmate
        default: false

permissions:
  contents: read

jobs:
  tests:
    strategy:
      matrix:
        ddev_version: [stable, HEAD]
      fail-fast: false

    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - uses: ddev/github-action-add-on-test@v2
        with:
          ddev_version: ${{ matrix.ddev_version }}
          token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          debug_enabled: ${{ github.event.inputs.debug_enabled }}
          addon_repository: ${{ env.GITHUB_REPOSITORY }}
          addon_ref: ${{ env.GITHUB_REF }}
```

#### `bats` tags and the `test_command` input

By default, this GitHub action is configured to exclude `release` tagged tests during _push_ and 
_pull_request_ workflows by using the `bats tests --filter-tags '!release'` command. 

For other workflows, the default command is `bats tests`, meaning all tests, regardless of their tags, will run.

To tag a test with a `release` tag, add `# bats test_tags=release` above the `@test` line in your bats file:

```bash
# bats test_tags=release
@test "install from release" {
  ...
  <run your test here>
  ...
}
```

This setup keeps release-specific tests out of everyday workflows unless you set a custom `test_command`.

For more information on `bats` tags and filtering tests by tags, refer to the [bats documentation](https://bats-core.readthedocs.io/en/stable/writing-tests.html#tagging-tests).



## License

[Apache](LICENSE)

## Contribute

Anyone is welcome to submit a pull request to this repository.

For more details on development processes, please read the [developer guide](./docs/DEVELOPER.md).

**Contributed and maintained by [julienloizelet](https://github.com/julienloizelet)**

Commit message:

Upload artifacts example (#50)
Co-authored-by: Stanislav Zhuk <stasadev@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# DDEV add-on test action

---

> A GitHub action to run tests on a DDEV add-on.

---

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/ddev/github-action-add-on-test)](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-add-on-test/releases)
[![last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/ddev/github-action-add-on-test)](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-add-on-test/commits)
[![tests](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-add-on-test/actions/workflows/add-ons-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ddev/github-action-add-on-test/actions/workflows/add-ons-test.yml)

**Table of Contents**

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Quick start](#quick-start)
- [Inputs](#inputs)
  - [Available keys](#available-keys)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Test your DDEV add-on](#test-your-ddev-add-on)
    - [`bats` tags and the `test_command` input](#bats-tags-and-the-test_command-input)
- [License](#license)
- [Contribute](#contribute)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Quick start

_We will suppose here that you want to test your add-on with the stable version of DDEV._

You can add the following step in your workflow:

```yaml
- uses: ddev/github-action-add-on-test@v2
  with:
    ddev_version: "stable"
    token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
    addon_repository: ${{ env.GITHUB_REPOSITORY }}
    addon_ref: ${{ env.GITHUB_REF }}
```

This step will install the latest stable version of DDEV and run `bats tests` command from the source folder of your add-on.

(The source folder of your add-on must contain a `tests` folder with at least a `bats` file, as it is the case if you have used the [DDEV addon template](https://github.com/ddev/ddev-addon-template) to create your add-on.)

## Inputs

### Available keys

The following keys are available as `step.with` keys:

---

- `ddev_version` (_String_)

DDEV version that will be installed before your tests.

Not required.

Default: `stable`.

Allowed values are: `stable`, `HEAD`.

---

- `token` (_String_)

A GitHub Personal Access Token used by the `debug` and `run test` steps.

Required.

Example: `${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}`.

---

- `addon_repository`(_String_)

GitHub repository of the tested addon (`{owner}/{repo}`). Will be used as the `repository` key during a [checkout
action](https://github.com/actions/checkout#usage)

Required.

Example: `${{ env.GITHUB_REPOSITORY }}`.

---

- `addon_ref`(_String_)

GitHub reference of the tested addon. Will be used as the `ref` key during a [checkout action](https://github.com/actions/checkout#usage)

Required.

Example: `${{ env.GITHUB_REF }}`.

---

- `addon_path`(_String_)

Path (relative to `$GITHUB_WORKSPACE` ) where the addon will be cloned by a checkout action. Will be used as the `path`
key of the [checkout action](https://github.com/actions/checkout#usage)

Not required.

Default: `./`

---

- `debug_enabled` (_Boolean_)

If `true`, a tmate session will be accessible before the tests step. See [action-tmate](https://github.com/mxschmitt/action-tmate) for more details.

Not required.

Default: `false`.

---

- `disable_checkout_action` (_Boolean_)

If you need to check out your add-on source code with some specific inputs (`submodules`, `ssh-key`, etc.), or you need to perform some extra steps between checkout and DDEV installation steps, you can disable the default checkout action by setting `true` for this input.

Not required.

Default: `false`.

---

- `test_command` (_String_)

If you want to run a customized test command, you can use this input.

If it's empty, the test command will be `bats tests --filter-tags !release` during _push_ or _pull request_ workflows and `bats tests` otherwise.

Not required.

Default: `""`.

For more details, see [below](#bats-tags-and-the-test_command-input).

---

## Usage

### Test your DDEV add-on

If your add-on is based on the [DDEV add-on template repository](https://github.com/ddev/ddev-addon-template), you
should have a tests folder containing a `test.bats` file.

Using this GitHub action, a `.github/workflows/tests.yml` file could have the following content:

```yaml
name: tests
on:
  pull_request:
  push:
    branches: [main]
    paths-ignore:
      - "**.md"

  schedule:
    - cron: "25 08 * * *"

  workflow_dispatch:
    inputs:
      debug_enabled:
        type: boolean
        description: Debug with tmate
        default: false

permissions:
  contents: read

jobs:
  tests:
    strategy:
      matrix:
        ddev_version: [stable, HEAD]
      fail-fast: false

    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - uses: ddev/github-action-add-on-test@v2
        with:
          ddev_version: ${{ matrix.ddev_version }}
          token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
          debug_enabled: ${{ github.event.inputs.debug_enabled }}
          addon_repository: ${{ env.GITHUB_REPOSITORY }}
          addon_ref: ${{ env.GITHUB_REF }}
```

#### `bats` tags and the `test_command` input

By default, this GitHub action is configured to exclude `release` tagged tests during _push_ and 
_pull_request_ workflows by using the `bats tests --filter-tags '!release'` command. 

For other workflows, the default command is `bats tests`, meaning all tests, regardless of their tags, will run.

To tag a test with a `release` tag, add `# bats test_tags=release` above the `@test` line in your bats file:

```bash
# bats test_tags=release
@test "install from release" {
  ...
  <run your test here>
  ...
}
```

This setup keeps release-specific tests out of everyday workflows unless you set a custom `test_command`.

For more information on `bats` tags and filtering tests by tags, refer to the [bats documentation](https://bats-core.readthedocs.io/en/stable/writing-tests.html#tagging-tests).

#### Preserving Artifacts

GitHub Actions provides a UI for browsing test artifacts. To use it, store `$TESTDIR` in `$GITHUB_ENV` within your Bats tests (see [example](https://github.com/ddev/ddev-addon-template/blob/main/tests/test.bats)), and configure your job as follows:

```yaml
jobs:
  tests:
    steps:
      ...

      # Optionally, you may need to zip some artifacts before uploading them
      # to fix this error: "The path for one of the files in artifact is not valid"
      # - name: Zip artifacts that can't be processed by actions/upload-artifact
      #   if: always()
      #   run: |
      #     for d in ${{ env.TESTDIR }}*/; do
      #       if [ -d "$d/path/to/directory" ]; then
      #         (cd "$d/path/to" && zip -r directory.zip directory)
      #       fi
      #     done

      - name: Upload artifacts
        if: always()
        uses: actions/upload-artifact@v4
        with:
          name: artifact-${{ matrix.ddev_version }}
          path: |
            ${{ env.TESTDIR }}*/tests
            ${{ env.TESTDIR }}*/web/*.junit.xml
            ${{ env.TESTDIR }}*/path/to/directory.zip
```

## License

[Apache](LICENSE)

## Contribute

Anyone is welcome to submit a pull request to this repository.

For more details on development processes, please read the [developer guide](./docs/DEVELOPER.md).

**Contributed and maintained by [julienloizelet](https://github.com/julienloizelet)**
